# Course Outline

## Module 1 - Introduction 

Concepts: Introduce the audience to the concepts covered in this course as well as this module.

In this module students will be introduced to the Azure Data Migration Service. They will learn the benefits and use cases for using the service.

Demo Description: Module 1 will have no demo.

Target 3:00

## Module 2 - Setting up Your Environment

Concepts: Students will see how to setup the environment needed for this course.

Demo Description: The demo will begin by showing students where to obtain the Azure CLI application, which will be needed to run the Azure Template.

Next, they will receive a brief overview of the template then will be shown how to run it.

After the template finishes, students will see the objects generated by the template, and how-to login to the virtual machine that was created.

Target 15:00

## Module 3 - An Overview of the Migration Process

Concepts: In this module students will learn what a migration consists of, the various phases, and the tools used in the migration process.

Demo Description: This module is concepts only, thus no demo.  

Target 5:00

## Module 4 - Performing a Pre-Migration Database Assessment

Concepts: In this section viewers will see how to assess their existing SQL database prior to an assessment to be aware of any issues that need to be fixed prior to the migration.

Demo Description: The demo begins by showing students where to obtain the Azure Data Migration Assistant. It will then show them how to create an assessment project and look for issues.

The demo is designed to have one thing to fix, students will see what that is and how to fix it, then to re-run the assessment to get confirmation their database is ready to migrate.

Target 15:00

## Module 5 - Migrating the Database Schema

Concepts: In this module, students will see how to use the Azure Data Migration Assistant to migrate the schema of their SQL Server database to the target Azure SQL Database. 

Demo Description: Using the Azure Data Migration Assistant, students will see how to generate the SQL code to generate the database on Azure SQL, using their existing SQL Server. They will be shown how to use the assistant to do the migration, but it will also be pointed out how they can save the generated code and use it from another application.

Target 5:00

## Module 6 - Understanding Online vs Offline Migrations

Concepts: The Azure Data Migration Service can operate in two modes, online and offline. It is important to understand the difference, thus we've devoted an entire module to the concept.

Demo Description: No demo for this module

Target 5:00

## Module 7 - Migrating the Data

Concepts: In this module, students will see how to use the Azure Data Migration Service to migrate the data in their SQL Server database to the target Azure SQL Database. 

Demo Description: Using the Azure Portal students will see how to generate a new Azure Data Migration Service, and within it generate a project to migrate our sample database. Once migration is complete, they will be shown how to validate the data is present using the SQL Server Management Studio.

Target 15:00

## Module 8 - Summary

Concepts: This module will summarize what they have learned during the course. It will reiterate the tools used, as well as stress the difference in online vs offline migrations.

Demo Description: Students will be shown how to delete the resource group generated during the environment setup module in order to save their resources.

Target 5:00
